first I am not vegan to be vegan or to
be part of a community within five
seconds a natural vegan here mentions
the other topic I may be infamous for
for speaking about in an overly blunt
down-to-earth way community so in the
past I've had several videos you're
talking about what does it mean to say
vegans our community have we ever been a
community will we ever get our act
together to be a community unnatural
vegan here makes the interesting
statement that she's not in it for
community that's not her objective it's
not her concern well I differ from her
there and this is not a criticism of her
it is a it is a personal difference that
I think is worth reflecting on I am more
ambitious than that I am more rapacious
than that yeah I want a real community
look at Mothers Against Drunk Driving
Mothers Against Drunk Driving have an
office at least one office in every US
state there's a 50 states the united
states they have more than 50 offices
that are staffed and open all the time
they've got that we don't you tell me in
2016 what's a more important message
mothers against drunk driving or
veganism it's veganism even if in the
past even if in the 1980s you know maybe
there was an argument Mothers Against
Drunk Driving were a really important
lobby today veganism is a message that
absolutely needs to have 50 offices in
the united states you know I I really
lived through the period of time when
when gay groups went from being marginal
to being ascendant to be very
influential when i was living in Toronto
there were a number of different gay
offices staffed offices for gay rights
you know I remember there was one that
was just specialized in lesbians and you
know different multiple gay offices with
multiple political perspectives and if
there was some controversy the
newspapers would go and interview those
foundations they were nonprofit
political organizations there you want
to say so you know let's say the police
commissioner made a homophobic
mark you know the newspapers would go an
interview oh let's go to that gay
foundation and gay gay legal rights
advocacy group and get their opinion on
this something like that that's a real
community that's that's a facet of
that's a reflection of in Toronto
definitely at that time there was a real
gay community they had a neighborhood
they had buildings they had offices they
had lawyers they had nightclubs they had
festivals I mean the gay community in
Toronto not every city has that there
were multiple well-organized vocal gay
communities and the newspapers could go
to them okay it would be different if we
were at the level of Mothers Against
Drunk Driving it would be different with
their level of Jews in British Columbia
I mean Jewish people are a tiny minority
in this part of Canada they have bricks
and mortar institutions they've real
organizations they have they have
fellowships and you know scholarships
and all kinds of benefits are people
from cradle to grave and ultimately you
can go there and attend a picnic and
talk to other human beings face to face
and whatever from fundraising to charity
worked everything can make a big
difference I'm I want it all I want a
real community and I see no reason to
pretend that I don't want that or that I
wouldn't value that I see no reason to
pretend that veganism is completely
satisfactory to me if it's just a diet
or just something I do in private and
that can't have any political
ramifications by blood I'm Jewish by
belief I'm a nihilistic atheist
nevertheless for my family and for my
own life it would benefit me more to
pretend to be a religious Jew for me to
start participating you know in the
temple because Judaism here in Canada
can provide me with a real community
everything from the picnics to the
retirement homes picnics to private
schools to retirement homes okay from
the cradle to the grave the life cycle
benefits of having a community are
provided by Judaism are provided by
Mormonism are provided by all kinds of
crazy ideologies that
rest on your believing in a god that
doesn't exist resting on your saying
prayers that will never be heard by
anyone unless you say your prayers on
youtube then your YouTube followers can
hear you that's our I look at groups
like the Mormons and I think I want it
all I want what you people have for the
Mormons it is nothing to organize a
picnic that 200 people are going to show
up that ok for me even that's not enough
for the Mormons it's nothing to do a
fundraiser to help some orphans to set
up some charity they go get a project
going to throw i want that i want vegans
to have that I'm worried about the whole
lifecycle from cradle to grave I have a
three-year-old daughter I don't see that
much of her she lives in Europe I'm
living in China nevertheless where is my
daughter going to go to school where is
my daughter going to go to get daycare
where am I going to go to a retirement
home or where would my grandparents go
to a retirement home from the cradle to
the grave now look I mean the issues
with gay rights activism those also
change over time I think in the recent
past that were hard battles for the gay
community to fight and now the gay
community can really celebrate that so
many of those battles have been won you
know in Canada sure I mean Saudi Arabia
is another story there are tons of
countries where the fights for basic gay
rights are still you know at an early
stage don't get me wrong but here in
canada we were one of the first
countries to have gay marriage there's a
whole you know legal battle surrounding
that equal rights for gays and so on
those battles fundamentally have already
been won okay the battles for veganism
are just beginning where's that office
where's that neighborhood where's that
nightclub where's the retirement home
declared center I want it all I am
fundamentally much more ambitious than a
natural vegan I'm not satisfied with
what you guys call committee I'm not
satisfied with a bunch of self-indulgent
middle-aged people sitting around on
facebook giving each other the thumbs up
or you know I'm not satisfied with a
bunch of teenagers on Instagram
photographing their ass
in a bikini and saying they're changing
the world none of that does it for me
okay I want more can I have it today no
can I have it next year no am I going to
see it before I die maybe Mothers
Against Drunk Driving in just a few
years they took off what percentage of
people in America really give a damn
about mothers against row it's a
minority really it's a small minority of
people who support a foundation like
that okay tremendously successful what
percentage of people support like really
donate money to Jewish temples in Canada
I don't know I mean small small minority
in the past I talked about sikhism
within Canada these are small minority
religious movements and again I mean
with with homosexuals homosexuality
isn't a diet they don't need to have
separate restaurants but they do like in
Toronto it's there's a district there
are there is such a thing as a gay
restaurant even though there's no such
thing as gay food offense we have a
reason to organize bricks and mortar to
have a restaurant in the physical place
yeah I want it all from cradle to the
grave from you know the bricks and
mortar temple to the lawyers to the
political organization to having that
foundation that's respected enough that
when there's a controversy in government
the newspaper is know who to call maybe
there are several foundations than the
call where there's a voice advocating
for veganism in Parliament in the
newspapers on the street yeah I want it
and I'm willing to recognize I don't
have it that's real community and we're
going to have to work real hard to get